# Basic

A super simple "web framework" to build websites.

## The idea

Not every website is complex or needs a cms. However, pure html might be to basic as we do not wat to repeat to much.

This is where Basic comes in, it gives you access to a small set of features that rapidly help you setup your next project.

## Basic setup

Clone this repository into a directory:
`git clone https://github.com/haringsrob/basic.git mynewsite`

Go to the project directory `cd mynewsite`

Run `composer install`

Point your webserver to the `mynewsite/web` directory.

The `settings.php` file should be populated with the correct settings.
But you might only have to edit the base url to start.

Then open up your web browser and your site should be running.

Each setting is documented in the file.

## Site structure

The structure of your site will be file based. This means that whatever structure you put into the `theme/pages` directory, will 
also represent your front end.

| home.twig will always represent your frontpage.

A little example, your directory structure looks like this:
```
theme/pages/home.twig
theme/pages/services.twig
theme/pages/services/webdevelopment.twig
theme/pages/services/webdesign.twig
```

The php webserver can then parse the following:
- http://example.com/home
- http://example.com/services
- http://example.com/services/webdevelopment
- http://example.com/services/webdesign

I think the concept is clear. The project contains a small example that should get you started.

## Managing assets

In the `settings.php` you can list a set of assets, this can be js or css files.

Using the script `php generate-resources.php` a minified file will be added to your project.

Again, this is also in the base project, so give it a go!

## Sitemap

The sitemap is autogenerated by running `php generate-resources.php`.
 
## What else is there?

### Breadcrumbs

Breadcrumbs are auto generated by the path, you can use:

```
{% for breadcrumb in breadcrumbs %}
    <a href="{{ breadcrumb.path }}">{{ breadcrumb.title }}</a>
{% endfor %}
```

To generate the trail.

### CSFR protection

If you want to use a form, you can use the following to add a token to the form:
`<input type="hidden" name="token" value="{{ csrf_token }}">`

Then in the respective code (to be written by you!) you can validate the token:
```
$sessionProvider = new EasyCSRF\NativeSessionProvider();
$easyCSRF = new EasyCSRF\EasyCSRF($sessionProvider);
$easyCSRF->check('form_token', $_POST['token']);
```

### What about code?

The `src` folder is autoloaded, but if you need a lot of code, this might not be the project to use.

### More?

Yes, there are a few more variables that you can use. Take a look at `/home` to see the list.

## How about user authentication or data storage?

If you need that, then this project is not something you should use.

There are better frameworks and cms'es out there that can do that for you.

## Additional info:

[Twig documentation](https://twig.symfony.com/doc/2.x/)
